New article to understand data quality feature (#430)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/what-is/understand-data-quality.md

---
id: understand-data-quality
themes: first-steps
title: Understand **data quality**
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: improve-data-quality
---

> # About data quality

Reviewer: I don't understand why you have the same content below, the 1st article should be also visible in What is, no need to duplicate the content.

Author: I changed it this morning so it should be resolved now

What is this **red, orange or green A, B, C, D, E displayed on my product edit form**? What are the **enrichment** and **consistency** grades?

**This is data quality insights!**

> Because rich, coherent and consistent product data is important to you, we introduced the concept of "data quality" in our PIM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because rich, coherent and consistent product data is important in order to deliver great product experiences, we introduced the concept of "data quality" in our PIM.
```

> Akeneo's data quality is an information about your product data quality: it helps you measure your data quality on two axis: **enrichment** and **consistency**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Akeneo's data quality is information about your product data quality: it helps you measure your data quality on two axis: **enrichment** and **consistency**.
```

> Each of these two axis has a grade ranging from A to E. The grades can be seen on several screens of the PIM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of these axes has a grade ranging from A to E. The grades can be seen on several screens in the PIM.
```

![Image data quality badges](../img/data-quality-grades.png)

# How is enrichment calculated?

> The **enrichment grade** is calculated on the percentage of attributes filled in your product edit form (whether the attributes are required for completeness or not).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **enrichment grade** is calculated as the percentage of attributes with values in your product edit form (whether the attributes are required for completeness or not).
```

> Checking the `data quality insights` panel in the product edit form allows you to quickly see which attributes need to be filled to improve your data quality grade for enrichment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Checking the `data quality insights` panel in the product edit form allows you to quickly see which attributes need to be filled in to improve your data quality grade for enrichment.
```

::: tips

> From the `data quality insights` panel, by clicking on the "Display all missing attributes", you can easily access a product edit form filtered on all the attributes that need to be filled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the `data quality insights` panel, by clicking on the "Display all missing attributes", you can easily access a product edit form filtered on all the attributes that need to be filled in.
```

:::

# How is consistency calculated?

> The **consistency grade** is calculated on several criteria. The mix of the following criteria help the PIM determine the grade for consistency:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **consistency grade** is calculated on several criteria. The mix of the following criteria helps the PIM determine the grade for consistency:
```

- Spell check: text and text areas are checked for spelling mistakes.
- Title formatting: the attribute as main title is checked for optimised writing.
- Upper cases formatting: the PIM checks whether text area attributes are correctly formatted for upper cases.
- Lower cases formatting: the PIM checks whether text area attributes are correctly formatted for lower cases.

::: info
Spell check is available for English, French, German and Spanish locales.
Spell check is usable with text and simple text area attributes.
:::

::: info

> Title formatting suggestion is available for English locales.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title formatting suggestions are available for English locales.
```

Reviewer 2: Or, "The title formatting suggestion is available for English locales."

:::

::: tips
From the `data quality insights` panel, by clicking on the "Display all improvable attributes", you can easily access a product edit form filtered on all the attributes that need to be checked for consistency.
:::

::: success

> To fully take advantage of the Title formatting criteria, set your product title as attribute as main title

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To take full advantage of the Title formatting criteria, set your product title attribute as the main title
```

:::

# Where to see data quality grades?

> Data quality grades for **enrichment** and **consistency** are displayed as badges on various screens of the PIM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data quality grades for **enrichment** and **consistency** are displayed as badges on various screens in the PIM.
```

## On your dashboard

> Your **dashboard** offers multiple ways of measuring your catalog's enrichment and consistency. You can choose to view data quality on the whole catalog, on a family or on a category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your **dashboard** offers multiple ways of measuring your catalog's enrichment and consistency. You can choose to view data quality on the whole catalog, on a family, or on a category.
```

![Image data quality dashboard](../img/data-quality-dashboard.png)

## In your product grid
Your **product grid** will display the enrichment and consistency grades for each product.

![Image product grid](../img/data-quality-grid.png)

## On your product edit form
Your **product edit form** will display the enrichment and consistency grades for each product.

![Image product edit form](../img/data-quality-pef.png)

::: info
Enrichment and consistency grades are not yet calculated on product variant and product models. Stay tuned for our future releases!
:::

## In your data quality insights panel (product edit form)

> Clicking on `data quality insights` in the product edit form leads you to a panel dedicated so that you understand your grades.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clicking on `data quality insights` in the product edit form leads you to a dedicated panel so that you understand your grades.
```
